September 1, 2016

Film: Pather Panchali
Director: Satyjit Ray

It's better to watch the entire film itself than it is to read a synopsis of it. 
Also, it's a 2 hour long movie. Listing every event that happens in each 
character's daily life would not make much sense to read and to understand the 
nostalgia and themes that many other reviewers express after watching this film.

Pather Panchali is the perfect demonstration on how to depict the 
political as the personal. Besides each character's personalities, there are 
certain social and economic structures which affect each of the character's 
lives. There are certain points I had drawn from this film which I have 
categorized and will briefly examine them.
        
        - Incorporation/Intrusion of Globalization in a society
        
            Elements of foreign cultures are depicted in the village as 
            either an interesting and novel form of entertainment 
            (traveler's viewing box), a symbol of a new social distinction 
            (the umbrella), a strange ritual that is out of place within the 
            context of a traditional Bengali village (the band's 
            performance), and as an unstoppable force changing the landscape 
            of the characters' world (the steam train driving through the 
            fields). There are no outright examples of cultural imposition 
            and cultural appropriation since each character takes the time 
            to interpret what they see or embrace different lifestyles as a way 
            of moving forward with their daily lives.
           
        - Poverty, Materialism, and Moral Character
        
            Durga's petty theft habits are viewed by the adult community as a 
            critical flaw in her moral character and a failure in her upbringing 
            by her mother. Only Indir and Apu protect Durga's innocence in her 
            character because they recognize the joy she adds to their lives.
            
            Poverty and debts impose a taxing psychological burden upon 
            Sarbojaya and Durga the most. Apu and Indir occupy two extreme age 
            groups who are respectively too young or too old to care about 
            material objects as much. Sarbojaya's extreme admonishment of Durga 
            and Indir for their material posessions is a reflection of the 
            pressure Sarbojaya has within her community to be the wife who 
            maintains a moral household that lives within its means while 
            ignoring all circumstances affecting her family. When one is in a 
            state of poverty with a family, there is an unfair application of
            upholding moral righteousness at the expense of pursuing personal 
            desires.
            
            With a husband who is usually absent for long durations of time, 
            Sarbojaya is the one who faces the brunt of their reality in 
            inhabiting a dilapidated house and completes nearly all of the 
            housework from the cooking, cleaning, financial management, and 
            etcetera. She is the character who most understands the pain in 
            deferring one's dreams amidst poverty and the pettiness in claiming 
            ownership over many objects such as fruits and land while others 
            struggle. Unsurprisingly, it was also her who had first suggested 
            that the family must be uprooted from its location in order to 
            survive.
        
        - Upheaval of a traditional social hierarchy
        
            The family's status as part of the Brahmin caste does not elevate 
            their reputation by any significant measure within their community. 
            Harihar, the husband, has to apply for several temp jobs while not 
            appearing as though he were desperate for money. To lessen his 
            fears, he casually dabbles in artistic pursuits and maintains a 
            prescence of patriarchal authority in his house. Though he appears 
            to be a mild mannered man, he does not behave or say anything that 
            suggests that he is taking the issues addressed by his wife 
            seriously. He does not feel the urgency to renovate his home since 
            he does not live in it as long as the rest of his family. 
            
            Sarbojaya in turn does not extend much sympathy for her daughter and 
            sister-in-law when she feels alone and deprived despite having the 
            traditional family structure. Durga is aware of their problems and is 
            able to tell that she will not reach the typical milestone expected 
            by most girls her age to get married. Indir is an elderly woman who 
            is in a vulnerable position where she can be kicked out of a house 
            on a whim if Sarbojaya dislikes her for a petty reason.
        
        - Women's roles and identity
        
            3 generations of women reside under one roof and reveal deeper 
            aspects of their personalities throughout the film. Indir expresses 
            plenty of energy and emotion in every scene that she is featured in. 
            She and Durga always make the effort to enjoy the little luxuries 
            and see the brighter side of life. Durga is always looking for an 
            adventure and covets items which bring her or other people joy such 
            as the necklace from her friend or the fruit from her neighbor's 
            trees. Sarbojaya delivers the most interesting mise-en-scenes which 
            reveal much about her dreams and disappointments. 
            
            There is a significant amount of tension when the three women 
            coexist with one another because each one feels unfulfilled in some 
            way. Poverty heavily limits their potential and exacerbates their 
            personal issues. It would be short-sighted to characterize each 
            woman as either a clueless old woman, a theiving girl, and a shrill 
            housewife.
            
            During the film, there is a theater troupe where the actress behaves 
            as a caricature of woman sacrafices her own body and dignity in 
            order for her lover to not be hurt by her father. This type of image 
            of a woman idealized as a good character by the community affects 
            how women are viewed and socialized into taking a subordinate role, 
            placing family above all else. Should she make a decision which 
            benefits herself, her motives are questioned and she is expected to 
            explain herself.

        