August 30, 2016

Film: 3 Iron
Director: Kim Ki-Duk

Synopsis:
        
        A young drifter whose name is assumed to be Tae-Suk according to other 
        online reviews tapes flyers over the keyholes of every house and then 
        later returns to check on each house and see if the flyer was taken 
        down. If there is a flyer still attached to door, then Tae-Suk assumes 
        that no one is home and will break into the home. Once inside, he cleans 
        the place and fixes any broken items before the home owners return. He 
        also peruses through their albums and takes photos of himself with the 
        family portraits as though he were a member of their family as well.
        
        Eventually, Tae-Suk breaks into a wealthy house where a domestically 
        abused woman resides. Said woman, Sun-Hwa, hides around her house and 
        spies on him while he continues performing his usual habits, only 
        confronting him when he is lying in bed with her modeling photo. He 
        leaves the house but then quickly returns for her, knocking out her 
        husband painfully with his aim with a 3-iron golf club and golf balls 
        as projectiles.

        Both characters break into homes, soon behaving as husband and wife. 
        They console one another for his or her experienced tragedy such as 
        Sun-Hwa's memory of her abuse and Tae-Suk's accidental killing of a 
        woman with a golf ball strike. Words are not exchanged between both of 
        the characters but their relationship continues to develop. 
        
        One day, they discover the body of a recently deceased elderly man in 
        an apartment and perform a traditional burial. Unfortunately, both of 
        the characters are discovered by the children of the deceased man who 
        check on him and are sent to the police as murder suspects. Why both 
        were acquitted from the murder accusation, Sun-Hwa is returned to her 
        husband while Tae-Suk is sent to jail for breaking into homes and 
        kidnapping. Sun-Hwa's husband bribes the police in order to have his 
        revenge on Tae-Suk by striking him down with golf balls.
        
        While in jail, Tae-Suk trains himself to aim properly with imaginary 
        golfing practice and to be invisible from other people's line of sight. 
        When he is eventually released from prison, Tae-Suk breaks into 
        Sun-Hwa's house again and lives like a ghost. He constantly stays out of 
        the husband's sight while keeping contact with Sun-Hwa as a reunited 
        lover. The film concludes with a message that it is difficult to 
        distinguish between a reality and a dream.


Analysis:

        Throughout the duration of the movie, there is no given reason as to why  
        Tae-Suk is compelled to live the way he does as a friendly drifter. The 
        police chief points out that Tae-Suk is a college graduate during his 
        interrogation. That detail along with the motorcycle that Tae-Suk drives 
        and the digital camera that he owns are the only clues to suggest that 
        Tae-Suk does not come from an impoverished background which would have 
        forced him to live the way he does. It would be easy to claim that 
        Tae-Suk found the lifestyle of a drifter to be incredibly appealing, 
        but it would not address the circumstances which cause each character to 
        experience loneliness within their family or society. For Tae-Suk, 
        he may have felt dissatified with adopting a usual path of an academic 
        and career life. For Sun-Hwa, she is portrayed as the epitome of beauty 
        whose own husband demands for her attention without seeking to 
        understand her in any meaningful way. She is beaten for any instance in 
        which the husband feels slighted by her. They both act as ghosts 
        floating around this plane of existance without truly experiencing any 
        positive forces in their lives until they meet each other.
        
        Although Tae-Suk and Sun-Hwa adopt an unstable lifestyle where there is 
        no guarantee that they would keep a permanent roof over their heads, 
        they still function as a cohesive family unit without words better than 
        the families residing the homes they have broken into. The typical 
        structure of a family is ideally supposed to alleviate feelings of 
        loneliness. However, the viewer observes from the households that there 
        is either miscommunication, domestic abuse, infidelity, or neglect 
        pervading the relationships between the original residents. Most family 
        portraits on the walls are an illusion of what could have been a happy 
        family unit, except for the portrait of an elderly couple of a 
        traditional styled house who could have possibly shared happiness with 
        each other.
        
        Loneliness in the film is portrayed as both an affliction and an escape. 
        Tae-Suk acts invisible not in order to commit crimes and malicious deeds 
        but in order to not disturb people with his existance. He leaves every 
        place he inhabits in a more cleaner state than it once was and repairs 
        broken objects strewn about the place into its peak condition. He cares 
        about his surroundings more than its original occupants but was perhaps 
        searching for a sense of belonging to a family. It is much easier to fix 
        broken objects than broken people. Therefore, when he takes Sun-Hwa away 
        from her house, he and Sun-Hwa are temporarily able to enjoy the 
        pleasure of walking around the world with a loved one, just as some 
        might imagine heaven to be. However, they could not pretend to be 
        invisible and ignore the psychological condition of the people dependent 
        upon them. When Sun-Hwa is returned to her abusive husband, she does not 
        arrange for a divorce. In a society where divorce is considered a taboo 
        act, the risk of ostracization from other people and more violence 
        inflicted upon her is more devastating than feeling lonely. The 
        compromise in inhabiting such a reality is to carefully express love 
        without it being destroyed by the eyes of those who do not understand it 
        better.
        
        