August 28, 2016

Film: Shi-gan
Director: Kim Ki-Duk

Synopsis:

        Seh-hee and Ji-Woo are a couple for two years but like all romances, have mellowed out their 
        feelings for one another. When they were visiting their usual cafe spot, Seh-hee notices Ji-Woo's 
        wandering eye towards a waitress and loudly chastises him for his behavior in public. However, 
        after one night of sex when Ji-Woo cannot get as physically aroused until Seh-hee encourages him 
        to imagine the same waitress. When they finish having sex, Seh-hee is sorely disappointed and 
        interprets that event as if her looks, and in extension her entire self, is not enough for Ji-Woo 
        to be attracted to her any longer as in the beginning of their relationship. She resolves to 
        alter her appearance as a solution to improving her worth in Ji-Woo's life but does not tell him 
        what she is doing at all. Ji-Woo searches for Seh-hee but also dates other women at the same time 
        in attempt to move on from the relationship. Each encounter with another woman and every note 
        that Seh-hee leaves on his car window to find leaves him longing for the relationship he once had. 
        
        When Seh-hee reappears in the usual cafe as a waitress, she introduces herself as See-Hee and 
        attempts to recreate her prior relationship as her previous identity with Ji-Woo, having the 
        same dates and recreating the same photographs as before. However, since the circumstances in 
        which they have re-met each other are not the same as the time when Seh-hee assumed her original 
        identity, she is constantly vying for Ji-Woo's attention to her new self from her old self while 
        still figuring out who she is exactly. The culmination of her identity crises and Ji-Woo's 
        lingering feelings for the Seh-hee he knew before the surgery blows up into an arguement in the 
        cafe in a surreal display where Seh-hee wears a paper mask of her old face attempting to connect 
        with Ji-Woo as her old self. Ji-Woo refuses to remove the mask and accept the new form of Seh-hee 
        when had wished to see Seh-hee's original face.
        
        As a twist to what could have been a basic movie about an insecure woman, Ji-woo receives plastic 
        surgery as a way to understand Seh-hee. He disappears for 6 months and the events of the film 
        almost repeat itself where Seh-hee meets man after man, measuring each of their hand sizes in order 
        to determine if he is Ji-Woo. When she chases after a man who she strongly suspects to be Ji-Woo, 
        he gets killed by a car. His entire face is disfigured. Seh-hee goes to the plastic surgeon for 
        her original face and stays by the statue of hands acting as a staircase to heaven when the water 
        continues to rise up, possibly drowning her.


Analysis:

        In any modern day society with a long history of patriarchy, women recognize from people's 
        behaviors and from messages in the media that appearances are connected to her value. The 
        psychological burden is upon her to accept the reality that she currently lives in. 
        Once she has recognized this pervading message, she must decide whether or not she will 
        internalize those messages and act accordingly to the behaviors expected of her in order to 
        be as appealing as possible or if she will trangress societal expectations and risk being 
        ostracized or viciously maligned such as the prostitute in the movie who for a very brief 
        moment, ruined the male fantasy of a night out by expressing her true self, being tired, in 
        the most blunt manner as a man in her company typically would. She is smacked on the head by 
        one of the male patrons for speaking in such a vulgar manner opposite from her image as a 
        clueless, ditzy girl. When the same woman tries to talk to Jin-Woo about a notable piece of 
        Spanish literature <i>Memories of My Melancholy Whores</i> by Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the 
        male patrons shut her conversation down. Jin-Woo does not defend her in any meaningful way 
        besides whining to his friend that the lady did not have to apologize for hat she had said. 
        The woman returns to behaving as a prostitute would. She never resumes her topic of 
        conversation with Ji-Woo and the audience never gets the chance to understand her well as a 
        person, just her representation.
        
        Seh-hee has internalized those messages and fueled her insecurity in herself, thereby relying 
        on Ji-Woo's attention to her to make her feel valuable to this world, as if her self's 
        existance depended upon it. Should Ji-Woo look away or imagine being with someone else for a 
        moment, Seh-hee feels as though she and her hapiness will disappear. She frames her 
        insecurity in herself as a conflict in the longevity of her relationship with Ji-Woo where 
        she must decide to either persevere through each day being the same person that she is and 
        risk losing Ji-Woo or if she will maintain her feelings of hapiness being with Ji-Woo. She 
        decides to destroy her figurative existance as Seh-hee and gets plastic surgery. By changing 
        herself physically, Seh-hee assumes a new identity as See-hee, and is almost reborn into a 
        new life promised by the plastic surgery advertisements above the door to the clinic. However, 
        while it is easier to change physically, conscious memories retained by individuals are not 
        so easy to alter by any neurologist or psychologist. Memories create the self.
        
        Seh-hee may have recreated her happiest memories but she still relies on Ji-Woo to pay attention 
        to her in order to feel like her existance matters on this Earth instead of finding inner 
        strength to transcend societal expectations and act as her true self without external validation. 
        See-hee remembers her past self but is afraid that her past existance will be easily erased if 
        Ji-Woo forgets about his relationship with Seh-hee. Recognizing the split with her new identity 
        from her old identity, See-hee attempts to preserve a 'dual existance' between her past and 
        present self. However, as long as Ji-Woo receives notes from Seh-hee, he cannot maintain a 
        relationship with any other woman. When Ji-Woo leaves See-hee under the presumption that he would 
        reunite with Seh-hee again, his hopes are shattered when he sees that he can no longer be with 
        the woman he remembers. Not only had Seh-hee's face changed but her personality as well. 
        See-hee, wearing a mask of her previous self as an attempt to regain her original identity, 
        makes a plea to Ji-Woo to accept her new 'form', but Ji-Woo is too distraught by his loss of 
        the person he knew and leaves the woman wearing Seh-hee's face.
        
        If our thoughts can change, if our bodies can change, and if other people's memories and 
        perceptions of us can change, then what part of us is permanent? Who are we? A strange 
        answer to this question is the trauma of the self which has not been healed and inner peace 
        with oneself. Should each trauma experienced in life by healed, one is closer to their better 
        self. A self unique to any other individual because of his or her innumerable list of thoughts 
        and experiences which cannot be replicated in exact order memory by memory. Seh-hee could not 
        maintain a self image dependent upon Ji-woo's superficial desire for her. When her past self 
        bumps into her after she exits the clinic and breaks the photo, it is a symbolic break from 
        her former identity as well as a beginning of a loop where psychological trauma repeats itself. 
        Seh-hee went through a macabre process of transformation twice; assuming a new identity, a false 
        self, and returning to her former identity which is more psychologically developed and different 
        than who she was previously. Attempting to erase her former self as Seh-hee in order to adhere 
        to a superficial beauty standard and preserve intense desire from someone only mitigated more 
        problems rather than resolve them.
        
        Plastic surgery cannot mend the problem with superficial interactions in modern day society 
        where people connect a person's value to their looks, style, job, accomplishments, and wealth. 
        With those standards to judge a person's worth in life, anyone is replaceable. There is always 
        a better model. It is difficult to express one's true self if other's police how one is 
        expected to behave according to their looks. However, these are the standards used to create 
        and supress distinction from one another. Men and women just experience two different sides of 
        the same problem. And this is without analyzing the futility of a maintaining a gender binary 
        in order to label oneself. Inanimate objects such as the statues in the park appear to be the 
        only relics which portray a truth about the value of love helping a person ascend to a higher, 
        intangible form of beauty unaffected by any element on Earth.
        
        
Symbols:

    - Photographs (Stepping on photos/ Ji-Woo's job/ Se-hee's picture cutouts)
    - Surgery Mask
    - Hands statue
    - Time (Song/ Repeating Events)